---
layout: post
title:  "Meshtastic and Finally Realizing the Handheld PC Dream"
date:   2025-08-04
categories: meshtastic, 3D printing, etc.
---
I still haven't gotten around to making a post discussing the end of my Tiny Computer journey that I started with the Koosmile P8 back (dear god) _last year_. Long story short, the main thing I REALLY wanted was a low power, handheld computer that was performant enough for daily/normal use but also usable enough for my niche use cases (like BIOS flashing, reading/writing to USB devices, etc.). Aside from GPD's MicroPC (which, haha, now has a V2 coming out LMAO), there was an absolute boatload of projects using Raspberry Pis in some way to provide a handheld computer-ish device. 

I've got a pretty long history with Raspberry Pis. My first one was a Pi 3B+ that I had received as a birthday present one year and turned into a RetroPie NES Mini. I quickly obtained more Pis as time went on, starting with a few Pi Zeros, a Pi Zero 2W. I'd wind up reusing that same original Pi 3B+ to smarten up an Ender 3 3D printer, and then at some point replace it with a Pi 4 for some extra juice. At some point I also built a Pimoroni PiCade, which came with a 3B+ as well. So I was familiar with the Pi ecosystem, but I had never really played with the Compute Module line of Pis, and I always understood "portable" and "raspberry Pi" as something that you wouldn't always see in the same sentence. Eventually though the ClockworkPi line of devices would catch my wandering, project desiring eyes. The uConsole in particular seemed like a dream machine. The power of the Pi4 that used semi-standard slotted batteries, a nice 720p display and a fully usable thumb-typable keyboard with trackball, all encased in a custom metal enclosure. The IO wasn't stellar, but it was far from horrible. I'd still be able to use USB-A devices, and the promise of third party "expansion modlules" made me optimistic that I'd be able to go beyond the initially limiting IO with community or official expansion modules in the future. 

It took awhile for this dream to be realized. The shipping times for the uConsole are... not the best. There's a lengthy wait period for your order, and the claimed "90 business days" seems like just a mere suggestion rather than a promise, going off of all of the complaints on the ClockworkPi forums and Discord. Luckily, I didn't wait extremely long for mine. I was able to get it faster than most by simplifying my order as much as possible. This meant getting the barebones kit, without any additional modules and without any Raspberry Pi compute module. This was easy to do, luckily, since at the time the great Raspberry Pi shortage had just started getting better and I was able to order a 4GB CM4 Lite off of 
